
## linux file system

- cd / - top most dir ( root dir )
- /home - goes to the home dir of the normal user.
- /root - goes to the home dir of the root user.
- /tmp - for storing temp files.
- /bin - essential user binaries
	- ls, cat, nano
- /etc - stores system configs.
	- /etc/passwd - lists the usernames and passwords ( normal user, root user, daemon user)
	- /etc/shadow - stores encrypted passwords
- /proc - stores kernel info
	- /proc/cpuinfo - cpu and processor details
	- /proc/meminfo - stores memory info and usage.
- /var - stores variable data ( data that changes frequently )
- /srv - services datas
	- /srv/ftp - ftp services
	- /srv/www - web servies and details

## linux permissions

- permission for users, groups and others
- command for changing permission is `chmod`

| rwx   | rwx    | rwx    |
| ----- | ------ | ------ |
| users | groups | others |
- adding execution permission for users `chmod u+x filename` this command will give execution permission for users for the specified file or folder
- to remove permission we can use `-` etc : `chomd u-x filename`
	- u - user
	- g - group
	- o - others
	- x - execute
	- r - read
	- w - write
-  chmod using binary method
	- r = 4
	- w = 2
	- x = 1
	- for giving full permission for user and read permission for group and write permission for others
		- `chmod 742 filename`
		- 0 - zero removes permission 


## TOR - ( the onion router )

- anonimity
- three level of encryption
- developed by the US-naval research laboratory
-  _working_
	- client --> TOR network ( passes through three nodes ) --> server
	- data --> encrypt with exit node public key --> encrypted in the middle node --> encrypted in the entry node
	- entry node decrypts the data to find the path to the middle node, middle node decrypts the data and finds the path to the exit node, the exit node decrypts the data and finds the path to the client
	- the data communicated form the last node to the server in tor will be decrypted that is it will be in plain text
- tor take longer time to load because of loading three nodes
- _tor bridges_
	- when ISP blocks the entry nodes tor provides with bridges
	- there are there build in bridges in tor
		1. obfuscated - obfs4
			- maskes the tor traffec as a random traffic like https
		2. snowflake
			- maskes the traffic like a video call
		3. meek-azure
			- maskes the traffic like you are connected to microsoft site or server
	- can get access to other bridges through tor telegram and web


## surface web, deep web and dark web

- ### surface web
	- legitimate content that can be accessed by anyone.
- ### deep web
	- there are some restristions and can only be accessed authorized users.
- ### dark wev
	- it is the dark side where restricted contents are available.
- 